---
layout: default
title: Interface
categories: all
terminal_pres: true
---
h2. PIN and POUT file formats

Since version 1.15, Percolator has its own input format called PIN (for Percolator-IN). PIN files are XML files whose structure is defined by the schema "percolator_in.xml":http://github.com/percolator/percolator/raw/xml-1-1/src/xml/percolator_in.xsd, (currently at its 1.1 version).

Similarly, Percolator's output (called PUT for Percolator-OUT) is defined by the schema "percolator_out.xml":http://github.com/percolator/percolator/raw/xml-1-1/src/xml/percolator_out.xsd, (also at its 1.1 version).

Supposing pin.xml is a valid XML file in PIN format, Percolator can be run using the following options:
<pre><code>$ percolator [options] -E pin.xml -X output.xml
</code></pre>
After a successful termination, output.xml will contain Percolator's output formatted in POUT format; the file will be overwritten, or created if not existing.


h2. SQT file format

Percolator 1.14 and below accepted "SQT files":http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15317041 in input; SQT files are the default output of  "Crux":http://noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/crux software toolkit. Although SQT files are not supported directly any more, Percolator is now shipped with a converter program called Sqt2pin available from the "downloads":http://github.com/percolator/percolator/downloads section. Supposing target.sqt and decoy.sqt are two valid SQT files, they can be (merged and) converted into a PIN file by invoking sqt2pin with the following options:
<pre><code>$ sqt2pin [options] -o output.xml target.sqt decoy.sqt
</code></pre>
After a successful termination, output.xml will contain Sqt2pin's output formatted in PIN format; the file will be overwritten, or created if not existing.

Percolator does not support SRF files, which are "Bioworks":http://www.thermo.com/bioworks/ Sequest output files, but those can be converted to SQT files using John Prince's Srf2sqt; it is available at "github":http://github.com/jtprince/ms-sequest. Alternativelyit can be obtained by running "gem":http://rubygems.org/
<pre><code>$ gem install ms-sequest
</code></pre>


h2. Tab-delimited file format

Percolator accepts input in a simple Tab-delimited format where each row contains a per PSM:
<small><pre><code>id <tab> label <tab> feature1 <tab> ... <tab> featureN <tab> peptide <tab> proteinId1 <tab> .. <tab> proteinIdM 
</code></pre></small>
label is a flag set to <code>1</code> for target PSMs, and <code>-1</code> for decoys. If Percolator is run with <code>--doc</code> option the first and second feature (third and fourth column) should contain the retention time and difference between observed and calculated mass/charge. Example files may be downloaded "here":http://noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/percolator/data/yeast-01.tab.gz

To run Percolator on a Tab-delimited input, use the following optins:
<pre><code>$ percolator -j tab-delimited -X output.xml
</code></pre>
where tab-delimited is a valid Tab-delimited file. 

Supposing pin.xml is a valid XML file in PIN format, it is possible to use Percolator as a converter and generate Tab-delimited files from PIN files by using the following options:
<pre><code>$ percolator -E pin.xml -J tab-delimited
</code></pre>
After a successful termination, tab-delimited will contain a valid Tab-delimited file that can be fed to Percolator through the <code>-j</code> described above; the file will be overwritten, or created if not existing.

h2. Mascot

"Mascot":http://matrixscience.com users might be interested in the Mascot file parser for Percolator: "mascot-percolator":http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/analysis/MascotPercolator/ written by "Markus Brosch":http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Teams/Team17/team.shtml at Sanger institute. 

Percolator is provided as a part of "Mascot Server":http://matrixscience.com version 2.3.
